When I read the announcement for the open address research internship a few weeks ago, I had mixed-feelings. On one hand I was excited. This position looks like a great opportunity to face the noble challenge of opening up the data silos dotting server rooms, desks, laptop bags, key chain thumb drives, etc. around the world. I was disappointed because this position is an internship. I already have a good job doing mapping work for the public and according to most career path narratives, seeking an internship would be a backwards move. It would mean moving from a stable job to a short-term position with no guarantee of anything beyond. It's just not practical! Nonetheless, I am compelled to apply for this open data internship. Why?

I have a parallel passions for geography and language. It's why in my undergraduate work at Ball State University I double-majored in geography and German. While my career path has leaned more towards the geography, my interest in languages remains unabated. This internship would allow me to again reunite my dual passions for language. I think my German experience and general curiosity for language would prove beneficial in carrying out the open addressing research project.

Open data is of sincere interest to me. I work in a government office where our data are sold to the public by the acre. We charge citizens for data about their own property! I've talked to neighboring municipalities about acquiring simple parcel data only to be told my options were to pay for a digital copy or come to their office and look at their computer screen. And when I express the curiousness of these closed-data situations, there is little sense of urgency to seek an alternative. The amount of time spent fulfilling little data requests keeps our small department from moving much beyond data maintenance.  While I am committed to the slow process of bringing incremental change in my office's data policy, given my position as GIS Technician, it may be quite a while before I can really help alter the data conversation in the community I serve. In the meantime, I get my open data fix by contributing regularly to OpenStreetMap. Thus much of my interest in in this internship stems from the opportunity I see to contribute something of substance to the larger open data movement and to work with people who feel similarly passionate about the importance of open data.

Finally, I'm a work in progress. My programming skills, GIS knowledge, and data wrangle-fu have grown by leaps and bounds in the past couple of years. I've learned enough to know that there is a ton about digital mapping design, and data that I don't know. I've barely scratched the surface, but I want to dig deeper. Mapbox is known for surrounding itself with talented people who excel in a variety of fields. I look at this internship as an opportunity to feed off the collective knowledge of the Mapbox staff and develop further as a professional.

Whoever you ultimately decide to offer this internship position to, I know it will be a great experience for them.  And while my current work situation perhaps makes me an odd candidate for this internship, I hope you'll take some time to look over the application webpage I've developed. I would relish the opportunity discuss how I might be able to work alongside the Mapbox team in contributing to the open address research project. If you have any questions, don't hesitate to contact me.
